Pawan Chhipa (He/Him/His) 
Address: Deoliya Kalan, Ajmer, Rajasthan 
Pincode:305629 (India). Nationality: Indian   
Contact: (+91) 7410812750 
Email  Linkedin  Github 
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE 
CSIR – Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI)  
Chennai, India 
Project Associate    
Sept’23-Present 
▪ Developed and optimized a sequential workflow combining classification and regression models, integrating 
deep neural networks to enhance predictive accuracy for toxic chemical classification and property prediction. 
▪ Optimized computational efficiency using high-performance computing systems and GPU clusters to process 
large-scale chemical datasets, achieving enhanced model accuracy through parallel processing.  
Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT Madras)  
Internship  
Chennai, India 
May’23-Jun’23 
▪ Acquired proficiency in chemical data analysis, including SMILES notation and chemical descriptors, laying 
the groundwork for future application in machine learning. 
▪ Reviewed literature on drug discovery and machine learning applications in chemical drug databases. 
IIT Madras, NTU Singapour, Chula University 
Chennai, India 
Master’s Course Project 
Jan’23-May’23 
▪ Researched PET depolymerization, identifying alkaline hydrolysis as the optimal method for sustainable plastic 
waste management, and presented findings on plastic waste as MOF precursors to an international audience. 
SELF GUIDED PROJECTS 
Project 1: Polymer Bandgap Property Prediction.              
Link 
▪  Developed a comprehensive machine learning pipeline for polymer property prediction, using Random Forest 
models, Morgan fingerprints, and molecular descriptors from RDKit. Applied RFECV for feature selection, 
cross-validation, and hyperparameter optimization to enhance model efficiency. 
Project 2: Alloy Design using Machine Learning.                  
Link 
▪  Developed an end-to-end machine learning package for alloy design, including data preprocessing, model 
development, and deployment, using k-fold cross-validation and gradient descent techniques. 
Project 3: Predicting the Presence of Heart Disease.                  
Link 
▪ Achieved 98.83% accuracy in health dataset analysis by implementing logistic regression, random forest, and 
KNN models with optimized feature engineering techniques, including one-hot encoding and normalization.  
Project 4: Machine Learning Model Analysis and Feature Selection                  
Link 
▪ Developed and compared machine learning models (SVR and Random Forest), achieving R² scores of 0.79 and 
0.85 with RMSE values of 2.26 and 1.92, respectively, through effective feature selection. 
LEADERSHIP AND TEAMWORK 
Theoretical Chemistry Symposium (TCS) | IIT Madras, Chennai   
Conference Volunteer    
Chennai, India 
7th-10thDec’23 
▪ Managed abstract processing for TCS, categorizing 600 submissions into 4 thematic sets, showcasing strong 
organizational skills.  
▪ Utilized strategic planning to streamline abstract formatting and collaborated with a team to produce a high
quality and visually appealing abstract book for the Theoretical Chemistry Symposium 
Placement & Internship cell | Indian Institute of Technology Madras       
Chennai, India 
Placement Coordinator    
May’22-Jun’23 
▪ Selected in a core team of 250+ dedicated students to secure and efficiently manage placements for 1800+ 
students of IITM in 2023.  
▪ Strategically pitched 15+ companies to open relevant job profiles for M.Sc and PhD candidates.  
COURSES & CERTIFICATIONS 
DeepLearning.AI and Stanford Online 
Nov’23-Feb’24 
▪ Supervised Machine Learning: Regression and Classification 
▪ Advanced Learning Algorithms 
IBM Skills Network  
July’22-Jan’23 
▪ Statistics for Data Science with Python 
▪ Databases and SQL for Data Science with Python 
▪ Python for Data Science, AI & Development 
▪ Python Project for Data Science 
Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai  
▪ Data Science: Theory and Practice 
▪ Introductory Computational Chemistry Laboratory 
▪ Principles of Quantum Chemistry 
Aug’22-Nov’22 
TECHNICAL & SOFT SKILLS 
Programming Language & Libraries: Python, ML(sklearn, Keras, tensorflow), Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, RDkit. 
Software: MS Excel, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, Canva, Chem-Draw, Basics of Gaussian.  
Tools: Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook, Google Collab, IBM Db2 cloud, Kaggle, Github, Knime Analytics. 
▪ Soft Skills: 
• Effective Communication and presentation 
• Ability to Convert Data into a Story 
• Collaborative Approach 
• Time Management  
• Analytical and creative thinking 
• Art of Googling 
SCHOLASTIC ACHIEVEMENTS/AWARDS  
▪ Ranked in the Top 2.6% in IIT JAM 2021, a prestigious exam conducted by IISC Bangalore with more than 
15K applicants across India.  
▪ Cleared the highly prestigious JEE Mains exam twice in 2018 and 2019.  
▪ Recipient of the INSPIRE Scholarship, an honor awarded to the Top 1% of graduating students nationwide 
by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India.  
ACADEMIC PROFILE 
Degree 
CGPA (scale of 10) / 
% 
Institution 
Master of Science 
(Chemistry) 
Bachelor of Science 
(Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics) 
Senior Secondary XII (PCM) 
Indian Institute of Technology 
Madras, Chennai (Tamilnadu) 
Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati 
University, Ajmer (Rajasthan) 
K P Sr Sec School Jobner, Jaipur 
(Rajasthan) 
7.46 
64.88 
89.80 
Year of 
Passing 
2023 
2021 
2018 
CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS 
▪ Enhanced expertise in applying machine learning techniques to accurate property predictions and materials 
design at the 'Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence in Materials Science' workshop hosted by the 
Centre for Atomistic Modelling and Materials Design, IIT Madras. 
▪ Actively Participated in the Theoretical Chemistry Symposium (TCS-2023), organized by the IIT Madras. 
▪ Attended Indo-German workshop titled “Complex Chemical Systems (IGW-CCS-2022) at IIT Madras. 
▪ Attended Chemistry In-House Symposium-2022 CiHS-2022, Indian Institute of Technology Madras. 
▪ Attended a 4-day MedChem-2021 conference on ‘Emerging infectious diseases and therapeutic strategies’ 
organized by IIT Madras–AstraZeneca Endowment Program from Dec 01-04, 2021. 